# JAVA-Classes

:::::::::::::
Java Notes ::
:::::::::::::
Day-1

What is Java?
Java is a high-level, object-oriented, class-based programming language and is platform independent. it was designed by 'Sun Microsystems' and released in 1995. It was built with the idea of "Write once, run anywhere".
Java is used in:
1.mobile apps
2.Web apps
3.Desktop Software
4.Games
5.Enterprise systems


JDK- Java Development Kit
A JDK is a software that provides you tools that helps you write code, compile code and run code.
JDK= JRE + Tools like javac(converts code into byte code)

JRE- Java Runtime Enviornment
It is a software that runs on top of the computers operating system that provides resources that java requires to run.
JRE= JVM + Core java libraries (like java.lang- that has fundamental classes and base types)

JVM -Java Virtual Machine
it is a virtual machine that enables execution of java and even programs written in other languages that are compiled to java bytecode.

Bytecode- It is an intermediate code generated by the java compiler when a '.java' file is compiled. Here instead of directly compiling into the machine the file is compiled into version that is understood by the JVM and can run on any macine

Object Oriented Progrmming-
It is a programming paradigm that based on the concept of objects, which can contain data and code.
Four Pillars of OOPS:
1.Encapsulation(Protects the code by giving limited acces to it only through public methords)

2.Inheritance(allows child class to inherit properties and methords of parent class)

3.Polymorphisum(allows one methord or ways to act in diffrent ways depending on the situation)

4.Abstraction(Hiding unnecessary details fromt the user)

The Main Method-

	public static void main(String[] args) {
}

it is the entry point where java starts executing your program. Every java application must have a main method with this exact signature. This is how a JVM knows where to to start running your program. Without this java would not know what to execute when you run your class.


Data Types in java-
Java has built in 8 primitive data types, these are basic building blocks for data manipulation and hold simple values directly. Primitive Data Types:
1.byte - 1 byte 
2.short - 2 bytes
3.int  - 4 bytes
4.long - 8 bytes
5.float - 4 bytes
6.double - 8 bytes
7.char - 2 bytes
8.boolean - 1 bit

Java also has Reference Data Types, they store references (memory addresses) to objects rather than actual data.
Reference Data Types:
1.Classes
2.Interfaces
3.Arrays

Final Modifier-
the 'final' is a modifier in java that can be applied to variables, methods and classes
use of final:
1.final variable: once a variable is assigned this value it cannot be changed (constant)
2.final method: once a method is declared final it cannot be overridden by subclases.
3.final class: the class can no longer be a part of inheritance system	, cannot be subclassd.

Wrapper class-
A wrapper class uses encapsulation to "wrap(encapsulate)" a primitive data type into an object

Type Casting-
it is the changing of one data type to another
	
	int basic = 15;
	float basic_float = (float) basic;

Conventions-
These are grammer, formatting tools for writing good code.
1.camelCase
2.Class names
3.Curly braces
4.Comments

Operator-
Ann operator is a symbol with a special function with a specified ation on operands(variables or values). Operators are tools that let you do operations like mathematics, comparison, logical decisions.
Types of Operatoes:
1.Arithematic(Mathematics operators)

2.Assignment(Assign vales to variables)

3.Comparison(Compare two values)

4.Logical(Combining conditions,True/False logic)

5.Unary(Work on one operand like ++,--)

6.Bitwaise(Work with bits)

7.Ternary(One line if-else condition)

Post and Pre Increment-
Increment means to add 1 to a number.
Post Increment: 
use and then add 1
	x++

Pre Increment:
add 1 then use
	++x


Topics Covered Today::::::
Java WORA JVM JRE JDK  	::
OOPS Pillars		::
Data Types 		::
Type Casting		::
Conventions		::
Operators		::
Porst and Pre incriment	::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::


Day-2

Topics Covered Today::::::
if-else loop		::
ternary operation	::
for loop		::
while loop		::
do-while loop		::
switches		::
nested loops		::
input with scanner	::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Day-3

Topics Coverd Today:::::::::::::::
Methords			::		
Classes				::
Calling 			::
Objects				::
Modifying			::
Parameters			::
Cunstructors			::
Overloading			::
This attribute			::	
Charachteristics of objects	::
Tostring methord		::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
